Another prominent form of surfing is body boarding, when a surfer rides the wave on a bodyboard, either
lying on their belly, drop knee (one foot and one knee on the board), or
sometimes even standing up on a body board. Other types of surfing include knee
boarding, surf matting (riding inflatable mats), and using foils. Body surfing,
where the wave is surfed without a board, using the surfer's own body to catch
and ride the wave, is very common and is considered by some to be the purest
form of surfing. The closest form of body surfing using a board is a handboard
which normally has one strap over it to fit one hand in. Three major
subdivisions within stand-up surfing are stand-up paddling, long boarding and
short boarding with several major differences including the board design and
length, the riding style, and the kind of wave that is ridden. In tow-in surfing
(most often, but not exclusively, associated with big wave surfing), a motorized
water vehicle such as a personal watercraft, tows the surfer into the wave front
helping the surfer match a large wave's speed, which is generally a higher speed
than a self-propelled surfer can produce. Surfing-related sports such as paddle
boarding and sea kayaking do not require waves, and other derivative sports such
as kite surfing and windsurfing rely primarily on wind for power, yet all of
these platforms may also be used to ride waves. Recently with the use of V-drive
boats, Wakesurfing, in which one surfs on the wake of a boat, has emerged. The
Guinness Book of World Records recognized a 23.8 m (78 ft) wave ride by Garrett
McNamara at Nazaré, Portugal as the largest wave ever surfed.
During the winter season in the northern hemisphere, the north shore of Oahu,
the third-largest island of Hawaii, is known for having some of the best waves
in the world. Surfers from around the world flock to beaches like Backdoor,
Waimea Bay, and Pipeline. However, there are still many popular surf spots
around the world: Teahupo'o, located off the coast of Tahiti; Mavericks,
California, United States; Cloudbreak, Tavarua Island, Fiji; Superbank, Gold
Coast, Australia.
In 2016 surfing was added by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) as an
Olympic sport to begin at the 2020 Olympic Games in Japan.[3] The first gold
medalists of the Tokyo 2020 surfing men and women's competitions were,
respectively, the Brazilian Ìtalo Ferreira and the American from Hawaii Carissa
Moore.